* **System thinking** - thinking about behavior not structure. Struture is just way to achieve desired behavior.
* Simple things should be simple, complex things should be possible.
* "I generally apply two tests when vendors provide a demo of visual programming tools:
  * I ask them to enter a typo into one of the fields where the user is expected to enter some logic. Often this leads to cryptic error messages or obscure errors in generated code down the line. I call this “tightrope programming”: as long as you stay exactly on the line, everything is well. One misstep and the deep abyss awaits you.
  * I ask them to leave the room for 2 minutes while we change a few random elements of their demo configuration. Upon return, they would have to debug and figure out what was changed. No vendor was ever willing to take the challenge."
  * Detecting vendor's world map:
     "Discussing what base assumptions and decisions are baked into a product gives great insight into a vendor’s world map. Asking them about the toughest problem they had to solve when developing their product tells you much about where the center of their map is located."
* Graphical user interfaces for infrastructure configuration, which vendors often like to show off, should be banned because they don’t integrate well into a software lifecycle, aren’t testable, and are error prone.   
* Blatant typos or grammar issues are like the proverbial fly in the soup: the taste is arguably the same, but the customer is unlikely to come back for more.
[[index]] -- Index
