= 786/Knowledge Base =

== Islam ==
* [[ImamShubaShajara]]  -- Tree of Imam Shooba Quran hifz
* [[TasavvufShajara]] -- Tasavvuf shajara
* [[RisalatulMustarshidiyn]] -- Risalatul Mustarshidiyn kitobidan qaydlar.
 
== Programming ==
=== Algorithms ===
* [[Backtracking]] -- Algorithm for find all possible solutions from list.
* [[BinarySearch]] -- Binary search algorithm.
* [[BitManipulation]] -- Bit manipulation related tips and tricks.
=== [[Java]] ===
==== MapperStruct ====
* [[MappingByParsing]] -- how to map if you should parse and extract field value?
* [[IgnoringUnmappedProperties]] -- how to ignore unmapped properties to avoid warning?
* [[LombokConflict]] -- What to do when mapstruct gives error like property not found.
* [[JavaGenerics]] -- About generic methods and classes.
* [[JaCoCo]] -- Java Code Coverage tool.
==== JDBC ====
* [[JDBCGeneratedKeys]] -- How to properly retrieve generated keys from jdbc.
==== Spring ====
* [[ResourceFileRead]] -- How to read resources/* files in Spring framework.
* [[SpringBootConfigurationProperties]] -- Some issues and solutions, tips and tricks.
==== Quarkus ==== 
===== Dev services =====
* [[QuarkusDevServicesOIDCKeycloak]] - OIDC and Keycloak

=== PHP ===
* [[print_r]] -- human readable print.
* [[magento2]] -- Magento2 CMS
* [[SetPHPVersionForSiteApache]] -- How to set php version for particular site.
* [[wordpress]] -- Wordpress CMS.
<hr/>
== OS ==
=== Linux ===
* [[OSLinuxAbbrv]] - Linux abbrevations
==== Ubuntu ====
===== Jammy Jellyfish =====
* [[WaylandProblemWithEclipse]] -- eclipse devstyle issue in Wayland.
* [[UsefulAliases]] -- some useful aliases these make your life easier ;)
* [[SudoWithoutPassword]] -- Giving user grant to execute <b>sudo</b> commands without password 
* [[LegacyKeyringWarning]] -- Legacy keyring warning removal
* [[TcpdumpMonitorPort]] -- monitor the port with tcpdump
<hr/>
==DB==
===MySql===
* [[MySql8GrantAllPrivileges]] -- Grant all privileges on database to user;
===Postgresql===
====Arrays====
* [[ClearArray]] -- How to remove all elements from array.
====Json====
* [[JsonPretty]] -- Pretty print for JSON and JSONB
====Dumping====
* [[PgDump]] -- Dumping db
* [[PgRestore]] -- Restoring from dump
<hr/>
== Books ==
* [[JavaPerformance]] -- Java Performance By Scott Oaks (2nd edition)
* [[JLS8]] -- Java language specifications
* [[JCIP]] -- Java Concurrency In Practice
* [[SQLAntiPatterns]] -- SQL Antipatterns, Volume 1
* [[DesigningDataIntensiveApplications]] -- Designing data-intensive applications
* [[BooksSeriouslyGoodSoftware]] -- Seriously Good Software
* [[BooksSREWithJavaMicroservices]] -- SRE with Java microservices
* [[CoreJava13Volume2]] -- Core Java 13th edition Volume II
* [[37ThingsGregorHohpe]] -- 37 Things One Architect knows about IT Transformation.
<hr/>
== Servers ==
=== Apache2 ===
* [[ForbiddenFix]] -- How to fix forbidden error when creatinserver in custom location.
* [[Magento404StaticFiles]] -- How to fix magento static files not found issue.
* [[HeadersConfiguration]] -- How to enable header configurations for sites.

== Cloud ==
* [[AWS]] -- Amazon Web Services
<hr/>
== Tools ==
===Maven===
* [[InstallJarToLocalRepo]] -- How to intsall jar files for only one project

=== curl ===
* [[CurlScripts]] - Some interesting curl scripts.
===Nmap===
* [[Nmap]] -- useful nmap scripts
===Vim===
* [[VimOverallSettings]] -- General settings and plugins for vim.
* [[GenerateHtmlForAllVimwiki]] -- How to generate for all of your vimwiki pages.
* [[NotWorkingKeys]] -- Sometimes your keyboard just doesn't do what you order in vim or terminal.
* [[VimChooseFromAutocomplete]] -- Choosing word from autocomplete.
===Tmux===
* [[TmuxUsefulKeyBindings]] -- Some useful keybindings in Tmux.
===Eclipse===
* [[LongPackageNamesInHierarchical]] -- How to fix long package names even in hierarchical package representation;
=== Git ===
* [[Gitlab]] - Contents about gitlab.
* [[GitDiscardUnpushedChanges]] - Discarding unpushed changes.
* [[GitDiscardUncommitedChanges]] - Discarding uncommitted changes.
=== tcpdump ===
* [[TcpdumpMonitorPort]] -- port monitoring
=== Keycloak ===
* [[KeycloakIncludeClientScopeInToken]] - Include client scope in token.
=== Hacking ===
* [[ToolsHackingArpspoof]] - arpspoof

== [[Architecture]] ==
* [[GregorHohpeRecommendedBooks]] - Gregor Hohpe recommended books.
* [[ArchitectureOrDesign]] - factors to take account to distinguish between architecture and design.
==Methods==
* [[OccamsRazor]] -- Simplest first.
==Electronics==
* [[ElectronicsAbbreviations]] - Electronics abbrs.
<hr/>
* [[UzbekRareDictionary]] -- uzbek rare dictionary
* [[WebLinks]] -- Some linkes I found interesting.

